Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes today. I'm
talking with Jennifer gentlemen. She's
a software engineer on the
windows team. How are you?
Hey, Scott. Excellent. I'm a
pretty happy to be talking
to you because people don't
realize this, but even though
of course, they know that
I, I worked for Microsoft
at least currently, as of
the time that we are
recording this show. And I,
and even though this show
is not like technically a
Microsoft specific show, I think
of it as nondenominational people
don't realize that like my
division, which is the developer
division, like I don't necessarily
hang out with y'all like,
I don't know anything about
your universe of the windows.
Is it w WDG a
windows devices, group something I
hate. Yeah, I don't know,
but it's, it's when that
the windows like division the
whole universe vice group. So
yeah, so our, our groups
are very different because it's
150 million people in the company.
So you have your own
engineering systems, you have your
own feedback systems. We share
some stuff. Like I assume
you build with our products.
You guys have been doing
awesome stuff recently. I will
take full credit for that,
even though I had nothing
to do with it as,
as you should. Oh, of
course, absolutely. I'm standing on
the shoulders of giants, but
the thing that you do
that is cool and what
I think we've all noticed,
and I'm speaking by the
way, I want to make
sure people understand I'm speaking
as the enthusiastic user of
windows, as opposed to the
like, person that knows anything
about windows from the inside.
Because I don't like have
the code for windows. I
don't, there's a lot of
code. There's a ton of
code. You're really listening to
feedback more than ever before.
And like the whole insider's
thing, like those builds, those
are like the same builds
that people have internally, right?
Like I'm a windows insider.
So I get, what does
it call it? The fast
ring You can get fostering
slurring or the release preview
ring as a windows insider.
And the fast ring is
like a show. Like, what
is it a build every
week or so more, or,
yeah. And, and obviously when
you get builds that fast,
they can have more issues,
but they're also more on
the frontline of cool features
and improvements. Whereas slow is
like, I want the cool
stuff, but I do want
to have a level more
stability before I get it.
And then release preview is
actually you get cumulative updates
before production or some of
the cumulative updates before production.
Yeah. So those are the
three rings that we have
right now. Okay. And are
those like special or different
or they are just the
same. They come out of
the windows build server. Like
I know that internally I
have access to a folder
that's called like wind builds
and I can install windows
from that are the ones
that the insiders get the
same as that. Yep. That's
the same. I mean, I
think we're fighting out of
RS to underscore release right
now as of the latest,
fast builds, but effectively yes,
I get the builds you
get the builds is the
same builds. Isn't that kind
of like a big culture
shift that seems to me
like there must've taken that
must've been at the highest
levels. They were making a
decision like that, that, Oh,
let's just give people the
bills that we've been giving
ourselves internally. It's pretty cool.
I mean, we definitely, we
did beta programs, I think
in the past, but by
the time people got the
builds, the feedback we were
getting, it was really good
feedback, but it wasn't like
we didn't really have an
easy way to keep track
of it all. And a
lot of stuff had changed
by the time we were
receiving the feedback and because
the fast ring is so
fast, like we really can,
you know, iterate on our
features as soon as they
get the builds and they
start telling us what they
want. So that's, that's kind
of like, I don't know
if this is a thing,
feedback, driven development. I mean,
the very first thing any
of my team members asked
me when we, we fly
to new feature is like,
what did they say? Did
they like it? Like how
they react? And like I
share screenshots from Twitter and
read it. And like, and
we, we look at, you
know, we have these little
popups, which are like, what
did you think about the
new start experience? And like,
we'll look at how the
ratings are and we can
filter it by like, who
gave us a wan, like
it's rubbish. And we're like,
no, why? Yeah. So, So
humans like to be here,
like they did that. I
want a, what am I
on now? I'm on insider
fast, 1531 as of the
recording of this show and
what was I doing something?
And then it was kind
of creepy, but also kind
of comforting because it was
like, were you able to
find what you needed or
whatever? And I was like,
wow, like, how did you
know what I was doing?
It notices stuff. So like,
it'll see you use the
action center. And then it'll
say, what'd you think about
the action center? You're saying
actual humans have actual meetings
and screenshots of our on
Reddit or whatever do get
in front of humans. Yeah.
Most of us. So I
am one of the shell
community champs, but they're actually,
there are, there's at least
one for each team. There's
a few of the teams
that have more than one.
And a lot of us
send weekly or biweekly reports
sharing all the top feedback.
What's trending. What's kind of
died down what went out
in last flight. Yeah. We're
very feedback driven. So you
said you're a shell engineer's
shell, meaning Explorer exe and
the start menu, or what
is the shell? So in
WDG the two big or
there's the core team and
there's the shell team and
the core kind of works
on all of the, the
platform level API is, and
then the shell builds the
UI or user interface on
top of that. So my
specific team owns the start,
many of the taskbar action
center, virtual desktops, all that
kind of stuff actually file
Explorer is also owned by
shell, but it's a different
team than mine, but yeah,
it's a lot of fun.
I'm a very visual person.
So the shell team made
sense for me. And the,
the feedback that you get
when I go to the
feedback app, like there's this
little app that you run,
that is an, all of
the things is called the
feedback hub. I recently figured
out and tell me if
I figured this out correctly,
it's actually way more sophisticated
than we thought. Like I
thought it was basically just
use your voice. And it
has a lot more, yeah,
what's going on in there
because I realized when I
go and say, add more
feedback, it's really sending logs
and doing a bunch of
stuff that I did not
realize it was doing. Yeah.
We've really tried to make,
like when we started user
voice was one of the
main places of feedback, but
we, we, we deprecated that
and shifted to the, the
feedback hub. And we've really
been trying to make it
a lot more of a
sophisticated system for keeping track
of feedback. And part of
that is like, you could
add screenshots, if you can
consistently reproach an issue, you
can actually add monitoring and
you can go through the
steps that cause you to
get into that state. We
were able to see, like
when was the feedback? What,
what build number was the
feedback first log for a,
what bill does it still
getting feedback on how many
different tracking VSO items there
are for that feedback? Cause
obviously you can imagine, like
when you have feedback, like
the start menu, isn't reliable,
it's not just one reliability
issue. I mean, you could
have a variety of things
that impact reliability on the
system. And then we're able
to link multiple items to
that. And, and actually recently
we, so in the backend,
we've always tracked feedback in
groups and that's just because,
I mean, feedback, we get
it from every different language.
So kind of inherently, if,
if you have feedback across
a bunch of different languages,
it's all the same. You
need a way to group
it all together. Sometimes people
also log feedback. I mean,
some, one person will log
feedback. Someone else will log
the same feedback. Maybe they
didn't see it. Maybe they
want us to still know
that it's an issue. So
we track feedback in groups.
And recently we made that
visible on the front end
to which are called collections.
And that's where I come
in. And I'm like, people
really want support for the
lunar calendar in the task
bar. And I publish that
as a group, but now
you can kind of track
the entire entity as opposed
to all the individual little
ones. The feedback hub team
is also very interested in
responding to feedback kind of
appropriately and it's to help
kind of reduce duplicates. How
do you do that in
multiple, multiple languages though? Like
you said, that people want
this calendar, but like what
if they're saying it in
French? So feedback on our
end is all automatically machine
translated. We can see the
original language, but when we
look at the feedback in
the feedback hub or in
a visual studio, that's in,
in VSO, it's just automatically
translated. Obviously their machine translation
is pretty awesome, but still
has some work to go.
So you kinda get used
to some of the phrasing.
My classic example is like
live tiles is frequently translated
as a dynamic blocks. I've
been working with feedback enough
that I know that, but
we do. We also have
a whole Loke team that,
you know, if we do
have questions about how it's
translated, we can pass it
off to them and they'll
let us know what the
intent of the feedback. Yeah.
Cause I assume the feedback
around the lunar calendar, this
is the Chinese lunar calendar
would be coming in China.
Yes. Yeah. We actually added
it with 15 . That
was one of the features.
And that's interesting because that's
like a piece of feedback
that I don't like, I
don't care if it's there
or not, but then there's
a billion people that do
so like that's cool. And
is there, is that one
of those things that like
bubbles up in the sense
of like, we never thought
that anyone would care about
the lunar calendar until the
user said so, or did
you know it and you
just been punting on it
and then it became like
a hot issue with that
Specific example, we first saw
the feedback for the, the
outlook calendar app started getting
a lot of feedback for
the lunar calendar and because
actually all the community chat.
So most of the nodes
in the feedback hub have
associated community champs that kind
of go in and monitor
and make sure the right
stuff's happening. And we actually
have a effectively, a mailing
list where all of us
talk about what's going on.
And so we were aware
of the interest for the
lunar calendar and with the
anniversary update, we kind of,
we integrated calendar into the
taskbar calendar, which was also
actually a top feedback request.
And when that happened, we
did kind of anticipate lunar
calendar requests coming in for
the task force as well.
And it happens, I guess
we, we, we anticipated correctly
and were able to check
that off. But yeah, I
know a lot of people
are concerned that like, you
know, maybe a lot of
people at Microsoft speak English.
And so, you know, should
I be logging feedback in
English? If I log it
in Portuguese, maybe they don't
understand me or it won't
get acted on as quickly.
But as it actually like
most of the feedback, I
probably can't tell you what
that lunar calendar is a
very specific example. Cause obviously
yes, it comes predominantly from
people who speak Chinese. But
a lot of our other
feedback, I, I don't remember
what language it came from.
Cause to me it's just
the language of feedback, But
it's not ignored is what
I'm hearing you say. Like
if, if you know, a
thousand Chinese people want a
feature and it gets uploaded
and put into a collection
or some kind of bucket
it's going to be seen
regardless of the language that
it was in. Yep. That's
correct. We do sometimes like
we will pivot feedback by
region our language because sometimes
it can tell us, like
we actually put out a
particular flight where there was
a, there was a bug
in one of the resource
strings and it resulted in
the all apps list, just
being missing. I think it
was for Brazilian and Chinese
simplified. And you know, if
you'd just been, if you'd
been looking at overall feedback,
it wouldn't really have spiked,
but we were able to
see that there was a
larger amount of dissatisfaction amongst
those languages. And we pivoted
the feedback and we were
like, wow, you guys really
need to look into this.
Cause obviously there's something, these
guys are hitting that isn't
impacting any other language. Yeah.
People do notice those outliers.
So sometimes as a user
of windows, you know, and
I w we are a
user as well. So you
have the feelings, there's this
sense of maybe we're not
being heard, you know, like
what about this bug from
nine years ago? That's bugging
you, you know, like there's
a bug that bugs me,
which is, and I don't
know if it's a bug,
it's a behavior. You probably
familiar with this. I feel
like when I go to
explore and I click on
downloads and I have like
me gigabytes in my downloads
folder, there's this pause like
slow. And then there's this
apocryphal like the, the, the,
the, the, the language of
the internet where like people
say, well, if you right
click and say, customize and
change it to general items
instead of picture, you know,
then it'll work. And no
one knows why, but it's
like cargo cult programming, where
it's like, if you twiddle
this bit or change that
register CRE register key that
we don't know anything about
it, we'll fix it. And,
and we go, and we
do that. And then we
wonder why Microsoft doesn't like,
listen to us. How do
they get surfaced? Like, how
do you, how do we
make you hear us? I
mean, I think that part
of that is why it's
cool for us to be
visible externally in social media
as well, because obviously the
feedback hub has its place.
And like, did you look
at top and trending? And
we look at like top
issues for the flight, but
sometimes like when I hang
out with people on run
it, you can really dig
into the specific RevPro, like
the specific kind of device,
why that's important, how long
it's been there. And that's
where, like, we actually, we
had one, I mean, it
was a while back now,
but I was, it was
an issue where if you
had your time zone set
to Venezuelan, then the taskbar
clock was an hour off.
So that if you open
the flyout, the taskbar clock
was an hour off, Fly
out is the thing that
happens when you click and
then it pops up and
shows you the calendar. So
the, the task bar was
correct, but in the flout,
it was an hour. And
even though there was feedback
for it in the feedback
hub, it like never, I
mean, it never really reached
critical mass. Cause obviously it's
a very specific set of
users who were impacted, but
in social media, they reached
out to us and they
were like, we really think
you guys should look into
this. Cause it's a consistent
RevPro for me, it seems
really serious. And I took
it to the team and
they were like, wow. Yeah,
that's totally legit. Like we're
on it. And they were
able to fix it in
the next couple of flights.
So sometimes it is really
like making it clear the
steps for how to get
to a certain thing. But
Yeah, you know, that's interesting.
Cause I've found that myself
to be really true that
if you can get, like,
you can complain, you can
like say, Oh, it sucks.
You know, like you said,
it's rubbish, but if you
can give someone a clear
what they call it a
repo, right. If you can
reproduce this and just like
this click here, click here,
click clear, expect this, this
is wrong. Then it's way,
way easier to get someone
at Microsoft to care and
you know, screenshots welcome all
that kind of stuff with
a nice circle and an
arrow pointing at it. Like
that's totally wrong. Things do
seem to be getting fixed
faster. It does. I mean,
I think the other thing
to understand is that we
get a lot of feedback.
We get a lot of
issue reports. We get a
lot of feature requests. And
because of that, I mean,
we have to find ways
to prioritize and, and that's
why like the up floats
matter. That's why, you know,
making a clear case for
how this impacts users matters.
Yeah. So that, that's an
aspect as well. The, the
idea of not being heard
is a tough one. Cause
you've got how many millions
of people doing insiders right
now? A hundred million. I
don't remember the numbers off
hand, but millions though, right?
Something like that. I think
we can go and find
a blog post and they'll
tell us somewhere out there,
like, I don't know the
number, but I know it's
millions, right? So there's a
whole ton of people out
there that are beta testing,
you know, for us. And
then you're saying that you're
getting multiple pieces of feedback
from everybody and the upvotes
are, is that the number
one way for people to
be heard? Floats definitely helps.
I mean, as I said,
like there are real people
going into the feedback hub
and managing all the feedback
that comes in. And while
there are a lot of
different ways that we pivot
it, I mean, the first
thing we do is try
to make sure that the,
the top things coming in
are being addressed and, and
any time like, and as
I said, we do group
feedback. So like, if you
have five items that all
have five upvotes, we grouped
that and then you have
25 of boats, but still
someone needs to come in
and do that. And so
there is sometimes a delay
if something had 25 upvotes
to begin with versus it's
now being tracked as a
25 foot item, if that
makes sense, Do, and I
assume crashes are a kind
of feedback and that gets
bucketed in a more programmatic
way. Yeah. Crashes use the
windows error reporting system and
sexually, like we do look
at feedback about crashes as
well, but we have an
automated system that automatically tells
us that, you know, in,
in flight 15 Oh 31,
we're seeing a large number
of settings crashes due to
whatever the function call is
when someone clicks on device
settings is the crash in
that, in that particular build.
So we actually knew about
that going into the flight,
but obviously our telemetry is
confirming that people are still
trying to access that page,
Which Chris is, I'm looking
at trying to run a
device In the 15 Oh
31 flight. If you open
settings and click on devices,
it will crash crash. They
will crash, Crush up there.
Yup. Poof at that hospital,
It was an unknown issue
for the flight. Usually we
flight is actually a workaround.
If you search for settings,
if you search for the
settings within devices, you will
be able to access those
pages. It's just clicking devices
will crash settings. That's so
weird. Like when, when, and
like from the outside, when
things like that happen, it's
like, how did that, how'd
that happen? What's happening underneath?
Why is that a weird,
we know we want, we,
it makes us wonder how
all these things get, get
fixed. And it also makes
us wonder how you will
decide what the final build
is or the golden build
and what you decide to
give us. Yeah. At some
point, I think a year
ago we made the decision
that we were going to
make fast, faster, which was
actually because of feedback and
setters were like, we want
the builds as soon as
you guys get them. And,
and we agreed that we,
them getting their hands on
the build faster is a
benefit to everyone. Obviously the
cost is that means we
can't, there's some things we
don't find out find fast
enough to fix it before
the flight. And then that's
where we put it as
a known issue. Was it
a conscious decision to make
people go out on social
media? Because I've noticed that
you're on social media a
lot more than like maybe
a year ago. I know
that what's her name? Donna
Succar is out a lot.
Sarkar people, people are out
there like looking around. Cause
sometimes I feel like I'm
finding bugs just by looking
on Twitter. And it sounds
like you're doing the same
thing sometimes. Yeah, yeah. Actually.
So the, the community champion
role started not that long
after the, the windows insider
program itself started, I actually
began doing it in February, 2015.
This is my two year
anniversary. I officially started on
Reddit over a year and
a half ago and on
Twitter a year ago. And
yeah, the idea was, has
always been about letting people
know that their voices are
heard and trying to understand
the incoming feedback and let
them know how things are
being changed because of their
feedback. So more and more
teams are getting engineers to
take on this kind of
role. We still do have
a lot more people in
the backend to look at
feedback. Cause then you might
see online. So a lot
of people will report stuff
to me on Reddit and
Twitter. And I love all
of it. Obviously I don't
have time to look into
all of it. And so
sometimes like, you know, I
might, I might share the
feedback with the lock screen
community champion, or I might
share the feedback with the
photos community champion, and then
they'll look into it on
their end. So you sound
like your job is kind
of similar to mine. I
mean, although mine seems like
it's more of a hobby
than I don't really have
time to do. It is
you're like, you're like a
bug router at the high
level, like anything show related
and you're routing that bug.
Cause I feel like I
do that a lot. I
didn't actually go out and
decide that would be a
job though. People just started
tweeting me bugs, Something like
that. Yeah. I mean, it
kind of helps it inherently.
My team covers some pretty
diverse areas. And so I've
always worked a lot with
partner teams to make sure
the right people are looking
into the issue. But yeah,
just as more and more
people are familiar with me
and social media, people just
feel comfortable approaching me about
things they think should be
looked into. And, and I
make sure it happens as
much as I can. I
think people, once people realize
that you're on their side
and that you are like
not inherently evil and do
actually have an interest in
fixing that bug. But also
like you said that the
flight like in a week
or two could have a
bug fix, it moves that
fast. That's where I think
things get interesting if it's
like, yeah, we'll fix it
in a year. Then somehow
talking to you becomes less
interesting. We have, we've put
in a lot of effort
over the last. I mean
the insider program has and
feedback. I've really grown a
lot since it first started
October 1st, 2014 and, and one of
the, and in one of
those ways is really trying
to work on our flight
notes to make sure that,
you know, if people report
issues, we try to make
sure those are the ones
bubbled up in the improvements
list for that flight. Cause
obviously, I mean, every flight
can have thousands of fixes.
And so we have to
find a way to, to
focus on the ones that
people really care about. And
so we do a lot
of work to make sure
that you do see that,
Hey, you reached out to
us about this and not
only did we fix it,
but we're letting you know
that we fixed it. So
please go and check it
out and let us know
how it went. Let me
ask a loaded question. Cause
like we wouldn't be a
podcast unless I totally jumped
you from behind and said,
ah, you answer this question,
do you, will you, will
you answer, will you, is
it still going to be
a bug if like a
Twitter egg asks you? You
know what I mean? Like
what if like there's like
famous person has bug versus
egg has bug, do you
listen to the eggs? Yeah.
I mean, I listen to
everyone as much as possible,
But seriously you do. Like
if it's a legit bug,
it doesn't matter whether the
person's verified or not. Nope.
It doesn't matter. I mean,
as long as like you
can communicate what the issue
is and maybe share feedback,
if you're willing to get
logs, if you're willing to
share a screenshot, I'll look
into it. Do, is it
screenshots or videos? What's the
best way to get feedback?
Is it the feedback like
the hub and then send
you a link to something?
I mean the feedback hub
is Yeah. I was just
gonna have to bring the
feedback hub. It's actually, it's,
it's really cool that, so
obviously on Twitter kind of
things are more one off
and like people might like
a post, but they may
not actually be impacted by
it. Whereas on Reddit, people
will actually get into much
longer discussions of, you know,
the design or like how
they got impacted by something.
And it's been really cool
that like, I mean, I
love Reddit, but over the
last year we've really seen
an increase in something spikes
and Reddit. And then you
see a correlating spike in
the feedback hub. And that's
really what makes my job
easier because in the past,
like people would get really
upset about something on Reddit,
but then you didn't kind
of have any of that
correlating evidence on the feedback
hub. And I still take
the feedback to my team.
But since the feedback hub
is really where we track
everything, it does make it
a little bit more difficult
if I can't be like,
look, they, they clearly have
this issue on Reddit, but
it's not there in the
feedback hub. So there's a
bit more of a correlation
now, which I love One
of the things I noticed.
I don't know when it
happened, but I'm in the
feedback hub right now. And
I'm like, there's some stuff
that has like a thousand
or one thing has like
10,000 up votes. And then
this is, I don't know
if this is new. It
says an official response has
been posted. So that's like
super awesome. Like right now
I see one that says
the Bluetooth settings page doesn't
open. This is the one
you mentioned. I click there
and it says a fix
for this will be out
in the next build, like
rock on Microsoft respond. We
have four States currently we
have, we've got it, looking
into it, working on it
and changes made. And that's
all from our backend. And,
and we can set the
state. We can set like
a build number where the,
the fix or the feature
is in there. We can
add sticky comments. Currently. The
only people who have permission
to add sticky comments are
the community champs, which makes
sense. I just found one
from you just now. Oh,
which one is it? Action
center appears Transparent in build
1501 four. Yup. You have
like a work around and
you're like, we're looking at
it and here's a workaround.
So like that's awesome. Here's
the one that you're going
to have to address now
because the world is demanding.
Notepad should support the dark
theme. That is Mary Jo
Foley's fault. Is that what
that is? So there's that
like someone is like, you
know, sitting on and saying
you have to support this.
No, no. She just, she's
very fond of notepad and
I'm very fond of dark
seam. I was actually the
one to publish that collection
and yeah, she, she shared
that. Well actually I think
it was rich Turner who
started it, but she shared
an interest in having dark,
having notepad update to support
dark theme. And I don't
know if that's the kind
of hard hitting bug fixing
that we really know what
I mean. Like there's people
who want like obscure Linuxy
things for the windows subsystem
for Linux, but then there's
update notepad. I don't know
Because I mean, the thing
you have to understand is
that there are tons and
tons and tons of different
types of people who use
windows. And actually like, you
know, maybe notepads supporting dark
theme is only one item
that we're tracking, but we
actually do track across the
board. So, okay. You probably
wouldn't know, but like my
team was actually the one
that added the dark theme
switch in settings. And one
of the things we track
is like, we've added this
feature, but obviously we rely
on apps and surfaces to
update, to support it. And
so we kind of work
with all our partner teams
just to let them know
we implemented this based on
feedback and you're getting feedback
for this too. And you
have to be aware that
like, don't just consider your
own feedback numbers, but consider
the picture as a whole,
like, you know, maybe dark
theme here for your app
only has 4,000, but we
have, you know, 10,000 asking
for dark timber windows. We
have another, you know, 5,000
being like, please every surface
should support dark theme. And
so we, we try to,
we work with our partners
to make sure that they
look at the feedback as
a whole. Yeah, that makes
sense. So like from a
UX perspective, you're saying dark
theme is now a thing
that we should all be
thinking about and it isn't
about notepad in that case.
It's about everybody. Yes. And
our theme is awesome. So,
you know, I'm not a
fan. I do like the
new nightlight thing though. That's
pretty cool. And I'm going
to go right now and
upvote the thing that says
slow down the transitions. Cause
it's too jarring. It should
have been working on slowing
it down, but it's more
feedback cause I always appreciate
it. Cool. So where can
people find you on the
internets? I am Jen MSFT.
I started that way on
Reddit because it seemed like
the most obvious way to
let people know that I
was affiliated with Microsoft since
then. I'm friends with most
of the mods for the
Microsoft subreddits. So they've actually
added a flare to my
account there to let people
know I'm official. But when
I transitioned to Twitter, I
became genom ft on Twitter
as well. And some people
seem to think I'm the
only gen at Microsoft. I
can assure you. There are
many more. I can assure
you that there are many
Scott's unfortunately dozens and dozens
of us. Thanks for chatting
with me today. Yeah. Thanks
for having me. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week.